The last member of the data science
team is a data science manager.
So I'm gonna talk a little bit about
the qualifications and skills.
These might be your qualifications and
skills, if you're taking this class.
So what does a data science manager do?
Well, the first that they
might be responsible for
is building the data science team.
They are responsible for identifying,
and recruiting data engineers, and
data scientists to the team.
Getting them set up, setting goals and
priorities, identifying those problems
within an organization that need
to be solved by data science,
and sort of putting the right
people on the right problem.
So then,
they manage the data science process.
So data science,
as you'll learn in another class,
is a process that's not just one time,
one all thing.
It's an iterative process, and so
it needs to be managed carefully.
And so, that is one of their
responsibilities is making sure that
people interact with each other
within the data science team,
but also interact with other people
in the external organization.
And they also interact with other groups.
So they might report to higher management.
They might also just interact with,
or collaborate with
people at their same level and
their units of your organization, and
so they need to have good
communication skills in that sense.
And so, what kind of skills do they need?
Ideally they have knowledge of
the software and hardware being used.
That's great if they have some kind of
background in either data science or
data engineering.
That's sort of the ideal case.
That's ideal,
because then they actually kind of know
the infrastructure that's involved.
If there's a problem that comes up they
might have a good suggestion about how to
fix the data science infrastructure, or
how to fix that machine learning algorithm
that doesn't necessary work
exactly like the person wanted.
They don't have to have that
qualification, but it'd be nice.
They do need to know the roles, they
need to know what a data scientist does,
what a data engineer does, what other
teams are supposed to be doing, and
how that may or may not be data science.
And so, part of that is a filter, so that
they can sort of filter out the problems
that aren't necessarily appropriate,
and focus on the ones that are.
They need to know what can and
can't be achieved.
So data science is useful and
it can be a very powerful tool for
an organization, but
it's not all purpose and all knowing.
And so, there's often problems that
just can't be solved with data science.
That could be because
the data aren't available.
It could be because algorithms aren't
good enough to be able to do that kind
of prediction at that time.
It could be because we can
definitely solve the problem, but
we just can't scale it up to
the scale that's necessary.
So they need to kind of have an idea of
what are the global parameters of what can
be done and
what can't be done with data science.
And then obviously, strong communication
skills, because they're going to
be communicating with their own team,
they'll be interfacing with other units.
And so, they need to be able to
communicate with what's going on.
And so,
what is the background of data managers?
So data managers ideally come from
some sort of data science background.
Whether that's analyzing data themselves,
or building data science infrastructure
themselves plus some management training.
That might be you if you've taken, say,
the data science specialization series and
now you're taking this series.
You kinda have data science background
plus management background.
Or you might have data engineering and
again management experience.
There's also another option is that you
have some management experience, but
you've also taken or learned a little bit
about data science and data engineering.
And ideally you've learned about it at
least at the depth where you'll be able to
come up with those suggestions
if those people get stuck.
At the high level it's good that you know
how to direct and set priorities, and
know what's possible and not possible,
but ideally you can also sort of
get in the mix and
help people out if that's possible.
The best managers at some level or
another know enough data science or
data in general that they can
contribute to the team in that way.
So their key characteristics are that
they're knowledgeable about data science.
That they're supportive, data science and
data engineering are often very
frustrating components of
being in an organization for
lots of different reasons.
And so, being positive and supportive and
motivational is really important when
identifying a data science manager.
Being thick-skinned is also really
important, it often falls on the data
science manager to report disappointing
results from a prediction algorithm, or
an experiment that failed, they often
have to report that to management or
people that might not
be too happy about it.
And so, they have to be willing to do that
in a way that's positive and friendly and
like moves on to the next thing.
So thick-skinned is very important for
a data science manager.
And again, polite, but relentless,
friendly, but relentless,
they'll get out there and
really work with people.
They can communicate with them, but they
advocate for and use data science in a way
that's really positive for
the whole organization and for their team.
And so, that's what you're looking for
in a data science manager.
Somebody that can kinda organize the whole
process, keep it going, and move people
onto the right problems and solve the real
problems that your organization has.